#summary Tag cloud dashlet displays all tags used in the site on the site dashboard as a tag cloud
#labels Dashlet,Tagging,Add-On

=Introduction=

This project defines a custom dashlet that displays the list of tags defined in 
the current site as a tag cloud.

=Installation=

The dashlet is packaged as a single JAR file for easy installation into Alfresco Share.

To install the dashlet, simply drop the `site-tags-dashlet.jar` file into the `tomcat/shared/lib` folder within your Alfresco installation, and restart the application server. You might need to create this folder if it does not already exist.

=Building from Source=

Check out the project if you have not already done so

{{{
svn checkout http://share-extras.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/Site%20Tags%20Dashlet
}}}

Change into the new directory

{{{
cd "Site Tags Dashlet"
}}}

An Ant build script is provided to build a JAR file containing the 
custom files, which can then be installed into the `tomcat/shared/lib` folder 
of your Alfresco installation.

To build the JAR file, run the following command from the base project 
directory.

{{{
ant clean dist-jar
}}}

The command should build a JAR file named `site-tags-dashlet.jar`
in the `dist` directory within your project.

To deploy the dashlet files into a local Tomcat instance for testing, you can 
use the `hotcopy-tomcat-jar task`. You will need to set the `tomcat.home`
property in Ant.

{{{
ant -Dtomcat.home=C:/Alfresco/tomcat clean dist-jar hotcopy-tomcat-jar
}}}
    
Once you have run this you will need to restart Tomcat so that the classpath 
resources in the JAR file are picked up.

= Usage =

Log in to Alfresco Share and navigate to a site dashboard. Click the 
_Customize Dashboard_ button to edit the contents of the dashboard and drag 
the dashlet into one of the columns from the list of dashlets.